.ds q \N'34'
.TH hnsd 1 "2022-12-22" "v2.99.0" "hnsd"

.SH NAME
hnsd \- SPV resolver for the Handshake network

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hnsd
[\-c \fI<config>\fP]
[\-n \fI<ip:port>\fP]
[\-r \fI<ip:port>\fP]
[\-i \fI<ip>\fP]
[\-u \fI<config>\fP]
[\-p \fI<size>\fP]
[\-k \fI<hex-string>\fP]
[\-s \fI<seeds>\fP]
[\-l \fI<filename>\fP]
[\-d]
[\-h]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hnsd
is an SPV resolver for the Handshake network.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
hnsd --rs-host=127.0.0.1:53 --pool-size=4
.TP
hnsd -r 127.0.0.1:53 -p 4 -k 79fea6a0beeddb0288759086a8397a7180ba451efa2045b7ec7937d8377848be
.TP
hnsd -s aorsxa4ylaacshipyjkfbvzfkh3jhh4yowtoqdt64nzemqtiw2whk@127.0.0.1

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c,\ \-\-config\ [\fIconfig\fP]
Path to config file.
.TP
.BI \-n,\ \-\-ns\-host\ [\fIip:port\fP]
IP address and port for root nameserver, e.g. 127.0.0.1:5369.
.TP
.BI \-r,\ \-\-rs\-host\ [\fIip:port\fP]
IP address and port for recursive nameserver, e.g. 127.0.0.1:53.
.TP
.BI \-i,\ \-\-ns\-ip\ [\fIip\fP]
Public IP for NS records in the root zone.
.TP
.BI \-u,\ \-\-rs\-config\ [\fIconfig\fP]
Path to unbound config file.
.TP
.BI \-p,\ \-\-pool\-size\ [\fIsize\fP]
Size of peer pool.
.TP
.BI \-k,\ \-\-identity\-key\ [\fIhex-string\fP]
Identity key for signing DNS responses as well as P2P messages.
.TP
.BI \-s,\ \-\-seeds\ [\fIseed1,seed2,...\fP]
Extra seeds to connect to on P2P network.
.TP
.BI \-l,\ \-\-log\-file\ [\fIfilename\fP]
Redirect output to a log file.
.TP
.BI \-d,\ \-\-daemon
Fork and background the process.
.TP
.BI \-h,\ \-\-help
Help message.

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs to https://github.com/handshake-org/hnsd.

.SH LICENSE
Copyright (c) 2018, Christopher Jeffrey (MIT License).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR hsd(1),
.BR dig(1)
